---
recordId: recJabaqMEyrxdB23
title: Texturing a room
slug: texturing-a-room
type: 'oer:Practice'
difficulty: Intermediate
youtubePlaylistID: PL-V2nChTadrVw5dp65bKPjF6iFdKpF2el
image: /uploads/recJabaqMEyrxdB23_image_interior-texture-banner.png
imageAlt: interior-texture-banner.png
license: CC BY 4.0
aiLicense:
  - AIUL-WA
  - AIUL-NA-3D
rubric: exercise
tags:
  - Blender
author: Michael Collins
course: DART 303
authorUrl: 'https://michaelcollins.xyz'
published: true
allowEmbed: true
version: 1.0.0
versionStatus: archived
publishEmbed: true
_snapshotCreatedAt: '2026-01-29T03:35:16.062Z'
_snapshotFrom: index.md
---

In this exercise, you will continue working on your objects. Practice unwrapping UVs, exporting UV maps, and create textures in 2D image editing software like Photoshop.


::iframe-component{src="https://youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL-V2nChTadrVw5dp65bKPjF6iFdKpF2el" title="Texturing a room Tutorial"}
::


## Learning Objectives

1. Become familiarized with 3D software interface and terminology.
2. Use texturing workflows to add color and texture to your polygonal models.
3. Perform fundamental UV unwrapping operations including UV unwrap, mark seams, and project from view.

## Instructions

1. Watch the tutorials in Learning Resources.
2. Duplicate the modeling folder on your computer. **This will be your project folder.** Save all files to this folder.
3. Apply the scale transforms to reset each polygonal object's scale to 1,1,1.
4. Create optimized UV layouts for all of the objects in your scene.
5. Use a texture painting workflow in Blender to achieve a painterly textured scene.
    - Alternatively, you may use external software such as Photoshop or Adobe Substance Painter! Have at it.
6. Ensure all textures are saved to the project folder
    1. Remember, Blender's internal texture painting tool will not save the texture automatically, you must save the texture to your hard drive.
7. In Blender, set up the textures so they are visible on the model.
8. Save the 3D scene file as` LASTNAME-texturing-room` in the project folder.
9. Compress the project folder once you’ve completed the tutorial and rename it `LASTNAME-texturing-room.zip`.
10. Upload the .zip file to the assignment dropbox.
11. Double check that you’ve included all files and that your `.zip` file can be downloaded and opened.






## Grading Rubric

::rubric-component{id="exercise"}
::

