---
recordId: recKy155GBMBZKNjJ
title: Ideas In Motion
slug: ideas-in-motion
type: 'oer:Assessment'
difficulty: Beginner
youtubePlaylistID: PL-V2nChTadrWRqmkePyLUhIndLHarj7H-
image: /uploads/recKy155GBMBZKNjJ_image_cycles-banner-compressed2.jpg
imageAlt: cycles-banner-compressed2.jpg
license: CC BY 4.0
aiLicense:
  - AIUL-WA
  - AIUL-CD
  - AIUL-NA-3D
rubric: project
tags:
  - Blender
  - AfterEffects
author: Michael Collins
course: DART 303
authorUrl: 'https://michaelcollins.xyz'
published: true
allowEmbed: true
attachments:
  - file: /uploads/recWIZ9by8kdM9JEo_attachment_dart303-project-concepts.docx
    title: Concept Development Worksheet (.docx)
    description: Concept development worksheet
    alt: Concept development worksheet
    citation: ''
    sourceUrl: ''
    type: application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document
  - file: /uploads/rec5yoxGObqGbFsIn_attachment_storyboard-template.pdf
    title: Storyboard Template (pdf)
    description: Storyboard template
    alt: Storyboard template
    citation: ''
    sourceUrl: ''
    type: application/pdf
version: 1.0.0
versionStatus: archived
publishEmbed: true
_snapshotCreatedAt: '2026-01-29T03:35:16.072Z'
_snapshotFrom: index.md
---

In this project, you will apply creative 3D production workflows to develop a 30 second animation. You will pursue your own interests while balance solving for the project's theme.



## Learning Objectives

1. Demonstrate understanding of 3D modeling, rendering, and animation skills.
2. Apply animation principles.
3. Apply fundamental principles of color and composition theory.
4. Practice concept development and ideation skills.

## Requirements

For this the project, you will design, model, texture, animate, and render a **30 second animation** solving for the project theme. Once you have a project idea and storyboard created, locate sound that you find on the audio resources tab that is licensed for remix (CC or Public Domain). Pay special attention to the **[audio track’s licensing](http://freemusicarchive.org/curator/Video/blog/Not_All_Music_on_FMA_is_Licensed_for_Video)**. You cannot use anything that states no derivatives, indicated by “ND” in the license. If the license requires you to give credit (CC-BY), you can give credit in the Vimeo.com description (where you will be uploading your video). You are encouraged to edit, modify, and combine different audio tracks to suit the needs of your animation.
<br><br>
**The video should contain 30 seconds of animation ±5 seconds.** While this may not seem like a very long time for an animation, it’s actually quite a lot of work to make 30 well crafted and polished seconds in terms of animation, modeling and materials, and rendering quality.
<br><br>
You will also critically reflect on your work and the project theme in a 150 word work statement.
<br><br>
A successful project will demonstrate understanding and mastery of 3D tools and processes, application of **[formal design principles](https://www.getty.edu/education/teachers/building_lessons/principles_design.pdf)**, attention to detail and composition, and lead to discussion about your work during a critique.
<br><br>
## Project Theme
What will you make an animation about? What makes your animation interesting? Go through the concept development process to identify a theme for this project. A theme can be as simple as a single word or complex stories derived from personal experiences. Try to identify the most simple version of the story you are trying to tell.
<br><br>
## Project format
Choose a format that you can reasonable accomplish within the timeframe of the project. Examples include:
- Narrative short film
- Motion graphics 
    - branding and identity
    - Product
    - Explainer animation
    - VJ loops for live performances
    - Experimental or non-narrative content: [Examples on vimeo.com](https://vimeo.com/categories/experimental)
    - Scientific or data-driven simulations and visualizations
- VFX/CFX Breakdown Reel
<br><br>

## Constraints
Do not produce work that could be construed as ‘fan art’ for existing intellectual properties. All assets used in the production of the work must be created by you, be appropriately licensed for use, or be appropriated in a transformative way that significantly alters the nature of the original asset. For example, you can use a texture pack you downloaded from a texture website, however, if you render an image of just a flat plane with the texture applied, this is not really creative transformation since the entirety of the image is work from someone else. Your transformation and contextualization is what’s important. A render with a background that uses an image from Google image search (please don’t do this) that comprises more than 50% of the work is also not really enough creative transformation. If someone reviews your work and says that the image’s background is their favorite part of the image, you’ll have to then explain how you didn’t make the background, which is not a great situation to be in.


## Instructions

### Pre-production
1. **Concept(s):**
    - Complete the concept development worksheet (see downloads).
        - Investigate three ideas that: identify themes, visually explore via sketching or storyboarding, and finding reference images that support the concept explanation.
    - A completed worksheet will aid the discussion with your instructor.
2. **Storyboard**
    - Use the storyboard template from the downloads section
        - Tutorial 1: [LinkedIn Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning-login/share?forceAccount=false&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Flearning%2Fanimation-foundations-storyboarding%3Ftrk%3Dshare_ent_url&account=76811570)
        - Tutorial 2: [Storyboarding](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NPrkxj2MyZI)
    - Requirements:
        - Complete the storyboard template. Use as many pages as necessary. View tutorials if you are unsure how to do this.
        - Upload storyboards to assignment dropbox
<br><br>
### Production
1. **3D Scene Layouts (animatics)**
    - Create a rough blocking of your 3D animation
    - Create viewport renders, edited with sound. **See demo videos for detailed instructions. DO NOT recreate the demo, this shows the skills and workflows you should apply to your own work.**
    - Setting up shot compositions: [Shot composition advice](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cIvGRytmRaw)
    - Requirements: 
        - Create a 15-30 second compressed .mp4 of your viewport animation videos edited with sound. Please consider relevant aspects of camera, composition, staging, pacing, and animation.
        - Resolution: 1080x1920
    - Post your in-process work to the relevant discussion threads
2. **Test Renders**
    - No screenshots permitted, you must save the rendered images to the hard drive.
    - **Note:** For reference, 20 second render times per frame takes 4 hours for a computer to render 30 seconds worth of frames.
    - Requirements:
        - 3 to 5 test renders, each from a different part of the animation. **See demo videos for detailed instructions.**
        - 1080 HD preset
    - Rendering times should be under a minute per frame (unless you plan to pay for an online render farm)
3. **Preliminary Submission**
    - Upload .mp4 video file in compressed H.264 format to discussion thread
4. **Final Rendering**
    - You will use either Cycles or EEVEE render engine in Blender to render your animation.
    - 30 seconds of frames is equal to 720 frames at 24 frames per second.
    - Try to render in EXR Half Float
5. **Editing and color grading**
    - Beginner level: Use Adobe AfterEffects to color grade the animation. **See 3D Scene Layout demo videos for the tutorial.**
    - Intermediate: You can use the built in Blender compositor (Blender Compositor: [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1DHL3nCoIhk)). 
    - Expert: Use EXR format for rendering images. Grade and edit within DaVinci Resolve (EXR: [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aJE7dmgOo6s)), (COLOR: [Grading tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1akgMT5us4Q)).
<br><br>
### Finish Production
1. **Statement**
    - Requirements:
        - Write and add upload a statement format named (min 150 words) called **_statement.doc_**
2. **Final Submission**
    - Requirements:
        - Upload .mp4 video file in compressed H.264 format to Vimeo.com
    - `.txt` file containing
        - Link to Vimeo.com video (Do not use Youtube please)
        - List feedback you received and changes you implemented since the preliminary submission.
<br><br>
### Critique and feedback
1. **Preliminary Submission Discussion thread**
    - Contribute feedback to peer work and engage with a discussion about your own work.






## Grading Rubric

::rubric-component{id="project"}
::

