---
recordId: recdQolQv78RHunPj
title: Rigging a robot arm
slug: rigging-a-robot-arm
type: 'oer:Practice'
difficulty: Intermediate
youtubePlaylistID: PL-V2nChTadrX1grpUd5zHMGYJovRjPN69
image: /uploads/recdQolQv78RHunPj_image_ex-6-adv-banner-compressed.jpg
imageAlt: ex-6-adv-banner-compressed.jpg
license: CC BY 4.0
aiLicense:
  - AIUL-WA
  - AIUL-NA-3D
rubric: exercise
tags:
  - Blender
author: Michael Collins
course: DART 303
authorUrl: 'https://michaelcollins.xyz'
published: true
allowEmbed: true
version: 1.0.0
versionStatus: archived
publishEmbed: true
_snapshotCreatedAt: '2026-01-29T03:35:16.057Z'
_snapshotFrom: index.md
---

In this exercise, students will practice modeling, rigging, and animating a hard-surface robot arm.


::iframe-component{src="https://youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PL-V2nChTadrX1grpUd5zHMGYJovRjPN69" title="Rigging a robot arm Tutorial"}
::


## Learning Objectives

1. Practice setting up Inverse Kinematics (IK) bone constraints.
2. Practice hard surface modeling.
3. Become familiarized with creating and binding an armature for hard surface models.

## Instructions

1. Watch the tutorials.
2. Design a unique robot arm made of at least 4 main parts, including a gripper, a forearm, an upper arm, and a piston. You may add additional elements as you see fit.
    - Create a rig for hard objects (do not download an existing rig)
    - include at least one rigged piston.
    - Include and IK system to control and animate the arm.
3. Create a short animation that shows off the capability of your robot arm design and rig.
4. Set up a camera to frame the shot.
5. To create a video of the viewport’s animation, save the file and set the render settings output folder to the project folder. Under **File Format**, choose **FFMpeg Video**, change the encoding format to **MPEG-4**.
6. Choose **View** ⟶ **Viewport Render Animation** to create the animation.
7. Save as `LASTNAME-robot-rig-animation.zip` and upload to the submission dropbox.
8. Double check that you’ve included all files and that your .zip file can be downloaded and opened. This should include:
    - `.blend` file
    - `.mp4` video file






## Grading Rubric

::rubric-component{id="exercise"}
::

